[Music]
so the average person spends more than
three hours a day looking at their phone
might not sound like a lot but that's
more than a month and a half out of
every year with all that time spent
staring at it you might have noticed
that your new phone is missing a button
or two it's not your imagination the
home button is disappearing and it might
not be the only one smart phones have
been shedding buttons for years so it's
no big surprise that companies like HTC
and Samsung are trying to do without it
don't believe me take a look at the
blackberry electron the first smartphone
to take off in a big way tremble before
it's full keyboard and dedicated call
and hang up buttons since the screen was
so small it couldn't show every function
at once using the BlackBerry meant
sorting through menus to find what you
need instead of a touchscreen many of
the models used arrow keys or a tiny
trackball well it hasn't aged well the
BlackBerry was cutting-edge for its time
early Android phones were similar
looking the specifics varied but most
feature dedicated home back menu call
and hang up buttons just like the
blackberry all that changed in 2007 when
Apple released the iPhone as hard as it
is to believe now not many people took
the iPhone seriously at first even
Apple's founder Steve Jobs wasn't 100%
on board with their new product still it
was only a matter of time before people
realized the iPhone strengths getting
rid of the keyboard allowed the screen
to more than double in size this was
handy because it meant that your
favorite apps were never more than a
click away the main button stuck around
for a few years but their days were
numbered it didn't take long for the
call and end call buttons to disappear
still the most useless Direction buttons
managed to survive for several more
years since menus weren't as important
as they used to be there wasn't as much
of a need for a dedicated back or menu
button either they still served a
purpose but it wasn't anything that
couldn't be done using the touchscreen
sure getting rid of two or three button
isn't going to free up that much space
but every little bit helps this
only leaves the home button and its
future isn't looking too bright either a
lot of people still like the home button
in fact it used to be one of the reasons
many customers preferred Apple to
Android unfortunately for button fans
companies can't resist that extra half
inch of space removing the HOME key also
makes the phone surface smoother giving
it a sleeker more seamless look some
manufacturers will tell you that doing
away with buttons is also a practical
decision and they don't plan to stop
with ditching the HOME key if they get
their way the power and volume buttons
might be next
HTC's u12 replaces its buttons with
touch sensors and the samsung galaxy
note 10.1 of the power button completely
you can still change the settings so
that the voice assistant button works as
the power button but that stops you from
using the voice assistant the argument
goes that since fewer buttons mean fewer
moving parts there aren't as many pieces
that can randomly break from wear and
tear unfortunately for HTC there's no
real evidence to back this up there's
also the fact that some customers found
their buttonless buttons difficult to
use and we still haven't talked about
the biggest problem with button free
phones most people simply don't like
them without physical feedback it can be
hard to tell if you pushed a button
right not to mention that there's just
something satisfying about the click of
a real life button this is what people
are talking about when they use the
phrase haptic feedback many devices
vibrate to simulate the effect of
pressing a real button but it's just not
the same thing that's why more than a
few people think buttonless phones are
just a fad but I want to hear your
opinion our flat surfaces the way of the
future or is the home button what makes
it feel like home sound off down in the
comments if it is just a passing trend
it wouldn't be the first one that didn't
quite work as intended for example look
at the Sony Xperia which comes with a
slide-out game controller the xperia
isn't necessarily a bad phone but how
many people were asking for one that was
also a PSP customers were promised a
phone that could double as a portable
game
in console that might have been a good
idea in theory but very few game
developers believed in Sony's new
product it's a pretty big problem if
you're trying to sell a phone for gaming
but no one is interested in making games
for it
Sony isn't the only company to struggle
with a new idea take a look at samsung
smart scroll air view & Galaxy Beam they
all look great in the ads and would have
been fantastic had they worked as
intended but that just wasn't the case
smart scroll was a feature included in
the samsung galaxy x4 that allowed your
phone to scroll up and down
automatically it worked by using the
phone's face camera to track the
movement of your head that was the idea
but it went to market before the
engineers were able to iron out all the
kinks he sometimes had to move your head
really far to get it working too many
customers lost patience with what they
thought was an unnecessary feature the
same people felt the same way about the
air view this was the feature that
allowed Samsung users to preview
notifications without having to touch a
screen it did this by hovering your
finger over the app in question air view
was usually alright at figuring out what
you were pointing at but it only worked
with a handful of apps as with the Sony
Xperia developers wanted nothing to do
with it the air view feature still lurks
in the settings menu of many Samsung
phones but the company has stopped
actively promoting it so many people
don't realize it's even still there as
for the Galaxy Beam Samsung's Galaxy
Beam and beam 2 were the only phones
that came with a built-in projector now
even I can admit that's kind of cool it
costs more than other Samsung phones at
the time but still might have been
successful if not for a few issues with
the projector itself the main problem
was that it drained the battery too
quickly which discouraged people from
using the beams signature feature
Motorola tried something similar with
one of their Moto mod phone attachments
it had most of the same problems as
Samsung's but the fact that it was an
optional attachment helped to soften the
blow now I have to mention the brand
that got the ball rolling the blackberry
storm
it was BlackBerry's first touchscreen
phone and the company knew they needed
something big to stand out from the
crowd how were they going to make it
click with consumers by making it click
the screen featured a system called sure
press that was designed to mimic the
sound and feel of a physical keyboard
blackberry was on the right track with
this idea remember that term I used
earlier haptic feedback people really
like it when devices give them a
physical response part of what made the
original playstation popular was that it
was the first console to include a
vibrating controller as part of the
standard package in theory the same idea
should apply to typing on a phone
unfortunately blackberry might have
phone a little too close to the Sun when
they tried to simulate the exact feeling
of a keyboard they're sure press mostly
accomplished what it's set out to do but
it came with the side effect of slowing
down people's typing on its own this
might not have been too big a deal the
real problem was that it used time and
money that could have otherwise been
spent fixing the issues with the storms
performance a realistic keyboard is nice
to have but not if it gets in the way of
a phone being a phone so there hey if
you learned something new today then
give the video a like and share with a
friend and here are some other cool
videos I think you'll enjoy just click
to the left or right and remember stay
on the bright side of life